Welcome back.
Up until now we've talked about Sublime Text and Visual Studio code.
Code editors that we had to install a bunch of plugins and extensions in order to customize it to what
we want and they work really well with a ton of different programming languages the next one though
is an I.D. e and it's called pie chart and it's probably the most popular tool for Python developers.
So I really really like it but it's an IDC that is unlike a code editor it already comes pre-built with
a lot of things.
This company Jeff brains makes it and the focus purely on Python developers.
So that is if you're a python developer they really focus and make sure that all the tools you need
to succeed are in here.
Now when you click on Download Now you have two versions the professional one which you have to pay
for and the community one.
So just download the community one the professional One just comes with a few extra features that we
don't really need.
So download the community one.
Just a heads up.
It's a lot bigger.
It's three hundred and fifteen megabytes.
So again it comes with a lot more tools for us to use.
So it is a little bit heavier than Visual Studio code or Sublime Text.
But if you are a python developer and you just want an environment where you can do everything in one
place pi charm is the way to go.
Now let's fast forward through this so that we're not waiting around for the download.
All right.
That was a long pause for me but for you with some editing this should have been quick.
Right.
If I open this up now again if you're on Windows or if you're on Mac installation process will be different
in our case because we are on a Mac.
I just drag this to application with Windows you'll probably go through an installer all right it's
all installed.
Now if I double click py charm is going to open up for me and we'll just make sure we allow it now in
my case I had already a previous version of picture that I've been using and you might want to import
your previous setting.
But in our case we've never used pie chart before.
And also most likely you want a fresh install so even if you get this type of pop up you can just click
on do not import settings so you get a fresh slate.
We're going to click okay and there we have it.
And right away you can see that.
Well it gives us a lot of options.
Let's just say I've never used pie chart before.
And next we get to choose our UI.
Do we want Dracula which is dark.
Or do we want light.
Let's go with dark for now
so I'm going to skip the remaining and set default
so in PI charm now we can create a new project.
Now in here it asks us where we want our create our project.
In my case we can just leave it over here.
We'll call it my project and before we click Create make sure that you click on this project.
Interpreter and double check that our base interpreter is using Python 3.
Remember if you're on a Mac or Linux you might have Python 2 already installed in our case we installed
our python version three point seven right here.
So we make sure that this latest version of Python is what's being used as the interpreter.
Now we can just click Create and our project is going to start for us
we enclose these tips every once in a while you get tip of the day because this is an idea you get a
lot of features that you can read about online.
So it might take you a while to get used to pie chart but it is a very powerful tool let's make this
a little bit bigger.
Now with my project here I can right click say new and then select file our file we'll just call it.
Hi.
Hi dot pie click Okay.
And there we go.
We have our first file opened up and we can just once again say print.
Now this is definitely way too small so I'm going to go to pie chart preferences.
And here it gives you a ton of options to customize pi charm to your liking.
In my case I want to make sure that I use let's say a custom font but definitely increase the size too.
Let's go with 18.
How's that.
Let's apply that's better.
You know what I want to.
Even bigger.
Let's do 20.
I'm going to head.
OK.
All right.
This side is now bigger.
That's great.
We can see it but this is still tiny.
I want this a little bit bigger so let's fix that as well.
We can fix this easily by pressing command and then using the mouse wheel if you have a mouse or using
two fingers and zooming in like so if you're on a Windows machine L.B. control instead of command and
just zooming in and out as you like.
Now the interesting thing here with pie chart.
I know we have a ton of things that we might not be familiar with right now but the key thing is that
Python three point seven is running our project and if we type something like print Hey hey we get a
ton of interesting things first we get a typo saying hey this whole hey hey is not an English word.
If I add spaces look at that.
It even gives me typos of English words but then I also have this yellow curly bracket or squiggly line
and it tells me Pep 8 no new line at the end of the file there's something that we're going to talk
about shortly when we talk about formatting our code.
But if I add a new line look at that.
Everything is working smoothly.
I get a nice little checkmark.
Now I can run this code by going to run and then clicking run and you can see the shortcut command here
as well.
If I run this asked me Hey what do you want to run.
Well I want to run the new high high python file.
I click on this and look at that.
Let's make this a little bit bigger that's better.
We see that our file is being run.
The process finished with exit code 0 0 is a good sign it means there were no errors and everything
is great now we who make an error here and let's say I miss my brackets and I hit run arc and just click
on run here look at that it gives me an error saying hey hey syntax error and expected yo f while passing
and tells you something went wrong.
So once again I can fix it run my code and everything is good.
There are a lot of features here that you can explore on your own.
Get comfortable with it.
Pie charm is definitely a great idea.
And the beauty is that unlike Sublime Text or visual studio code where we had to install all these packages
pie chart comes well with everything built in.
It's an IDC we don't have to install any of these packages.
This environment is already set up for us to work professionally with python because it is made for
Python developers.
I'll see in the next one by.